<p>I worked with the new Programming Club after school today. An alumni worked us through a simple webpage themed like <a href="http://www.hunterlightman.com">his webpage</a> that used jQuery to position and animate. It was quite interesting, and I learned a simple, mathematical way to animate items in circles basic with trigonometry. You can see my tweaked result at <strong><a href="extras/Planetary">Planetary</a></strong>. I'm very excited for future projects like this, especially when I can pick up a tip or two on algorithms such as the circle one.</p><p><hr /></p><p>Other Updates:</p><ul><li>I also created a program based on the need to <a href="http://www.chemteam.info/Equations/Balance-Equation.html">balance chemical equations</a>. You can see this at <strong><a href="extras/Balencistry">Balencistry</a></strong>. It allows you to visually see the comparison of different elements on both sides with a double bar graph.</li><li>In the same spirit of school topics, I've also uploaded <strong><a href="extras/PeriodicLetters">Periodic Letters</a></strong>, a tool for a project earlier this year. We were consolidating our knowledge on the structure of the periodic table, and our quarter project was to make a popular phrase using just periodic elements. I've also included "Jelementium" (J) and "Unoctquadium" (<strike>Uo</strike>q) in order to get all of the missing elements. I didn't focus much on printing, so long words are discouraged.</li><li>And lastly, I changed the URLS of the single-page project pages (namely, <a href="extras/MemoryGame">Memory Game</a> and <a href="extras/TicTacToe">Tic Tac Toe</a>) to directories instead of individual files. All the links on this site have been updated.</li></ul><p></p>