<p>Sorry for the lack of posting in the past few days. I have been busy with other projects, especially with <a href="https://nodejs.org/en/">Node.js</a>, an amazing JavaScript platform. It's extremely confusing and frustrating right now, but I'm managing to slowly work my way through and learn some new tricks.</p><p>Right now, my main focus as a side project is a card game called "Pa Pei" (literally "hit nose" in Chinese, referring to the penalty for the loser at the end of the game). Play is going to be real-time, fast, and with cool graphics (I messed around with HTML canvas again to dynamically generate cards&mdash; it will also help in the future if I want to create new themes). But again, it's complicated, I still need to work out much of the gameplay logistics and finalize the foundation that I've created. I'll try to finish it soon.</p><p>However, in the meantime, I would like to announce that I will again attempt <a href="https://projecteuler.net/">Project Euler</a> problems. They are math problems aimed at programming solutions, because they are simply too tedious and time-consuming to do by hand or with a simple calculator. They require complex algorithms&mdash; some may take even a modern computer billions to trillions of years if brute-forced (if you try every possible combination). They're interesting and brain-killing.</p><p>For example, here is the first one:</p><blockquote class="quote"><span class="quoted">If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.<br />Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.</span><span class="author"><a href="https://projecteuler.net/problem=1">Project Euler Question 1</a></span></blockquote><p>And here's my solution:</p><p><pre>// JavaScript
var sum = 0;
for(var i = 0; i < 1000; i++)
	if(i % 3 == 0 || i % 5 == 0)
		sum += i;</pre></p><p>And the (correct) answer is: <strong>233168</strong>.</p><p>So I will try and post one of these every day if I can figure one out and if I do not post a regular post. I'm also considering posting about a list of new interesting words as a different type of daily post in order to expand my vocabulary. If I do not post it, the solutions I have will be posted in the as an Extra under <a href="extras/Euler">Euler</a>.</p><p>And lastly, I've added a little feature to the site that I'm anticipating that I will use soon: foreign-language text! Check out the following:</p><p><div class="foreign notranslate">你好!</div><span class="language"><span class="languageName"><i class="fa fa-globe"></i> Language: Chinese</span><span class="translate"><a href="https://translate.google.com/#zh-CN/en/你好!"><i class="fa fa-language"></i> See translation</a></span></span></p><p><div class="foreign notranslate">Bonjour!</div><span class="language"><span class="languageName"><i class="fa fa-globe"></i> Language: French</span><span class="translate"><a href="https://translate.google.com/#fr/en/Bonjour!"><i class="fa fa-language"></i> See translation</a></span></span></p><p><div class="foreign notranslate">¡Hola!</div><span class="language"><span class="languageName"><i class="fa fa-globe"></i> Language: Spanish</span><span class="translate"><a href="https://translate.google.com/#es/en/¡Hola!"><i class="fa fa-language"></i> See translation</a></span></span></p>