<p>Bump.</p><p>That's how they do it, right? Revive a blog post? Spark some interest into a community driven by the present? A present that is always burying the past? The past that is full of virtuous mistakes and the subsequent lessons?</p><p>And that's what I hope to do. Revive this blog. I felt that it was very necessary for me, months ago in Semester one of this year, when I was not doing so well in English class. And then I did well in English class, first quarter of semester two. The problem is, fourth quarter is coming, and I feel that I'm slacking.</p><p>I need practice. Serious practice. And that's where this blog comes into play.</p><p>So welcome back into my life! I really hope no one is reading this right now, because I'm talking to my blog&mdash; an inanimate, digital entity. Oh well. I've done it before, and I'm sure to do it again.</p><p><hr /></p><p>On a side note, I am hoping to revive not only my English language skills, but also those of my secondary, student languages: Spanish (español) and Chinese (中文). I was thinking to include some in each post, at least a relevant sentence or two.</p><p><div class="foreign notranslate">¡Hola! Me llamo Jonathan Lam, y estoy escribiendo un blog. No me alegro que estés leyeno este.</div><span class="language"><span class="languageName"><i class="fa fa-globe"></i> Language: Spanish</span><span class="translate"><a href="https://translate.google.com/#es/en/¡Hola! Me llamo Jonathan Lam, y estoy escribiendo un blog. No me alegro que estés leyendo este."><i class="fa fa-language"></i> See translation</a></span></span></p><p><div class="foreign notranslate">你好！我的名字叫蓝小龙。你好吗？我的中文不太好，所以你不应该批评我。<span class="footnoteId">1</span></div><span class="language"><span class="languageName"><i class="fa fa-globe"></i> Language: Chinese</span><span class="translate"><a href="https://translate.google.com/#zh-CN/en/你好！我的名字叫蓝小龙。你好吗？我的中文不太好，所以你不应该批评我。==="><i class="fa fa-language"></i> See translation</a></span></span></p><p><span class="footnoteId footnote" data-ref="1">1: I am using my keyboard (with the <a href="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ComposeKey">Alt-compose key</a>) for Spanish input, and an <a href="http://www.purpleculture.net/online-chinese-input/">online pinyin-to-Chinese converter</a> for my Chinese input.</span></p>