<p></p><blockquote class="quote"><span class="quoted">On this note, don’t let me catch you inactive. Idle. Purpose-less. Because every time you find yourself bored, know that there’s a great receptacle of knowledge out there, embroidered in every seam of our experiences. Just pick up your pen and jump on a train of thought; if you can run fast enough and catch it, you’ll never lose steam.</span><span class="author">Jonathan Lam, <em>Incendiary</em></span></blockquote><p>Sitting at my computer nearing 11:00p.m., I write this, my own train of thought lost. This was supposed to be my call to action; although it seemed an interesting play on words&mdash; there's a repetition of train vocabulary&mdash; it just added more to my essay, more to my essay that takes six minutes out of the maximum five. And I haven't even achieved my goal of creating a call to action.</p><p>Meanwhile, my head is on a wall, one leg is propped up on the counter chair and the other is "grounded" on the floor&mdash; a technique I've learned yesterday that will keep me awake. It's designed to give me one extra discomfort, one more conscious reminder of my own measly existence.</p><p>But this is all a description. All a narcissistic little moment in my life. My life that you shouldn't care about. I'm complaining, writing, blogging to achieve meaning. Have I achieved anything? Have I answered my question? Args. It's frustrating.</p><p>I'm attempting to finish up my Sophomore Speakout <em>Incendiary</em>, a motivational speech about self-initiated learning. And here I am, attempting to motivate myself. I'm writing and blogging. Blogging and writing. Attempting to stay out of an idle spiral and </p><p>Five minutes is up already. Oh well. See you tomorrow.</p><p>And sorry for not writing yesterday. I was busy.</p>