<p>I didn't realize that it had been so long since I had previously written a post. Five days. Five days? That went quickly.</p><p>For starters, it was a long weekend, with Memorial Day in the mix. Secondly, I had lots of studying to get done. Thirdly, I had other coding concerns with my sister, some of which is put onto GitHub. In addition, I have created another personal project, a customizable new-tab page, <a href="https://www.github.com/jlam55555/blank-new-tab">blank-new-tab</a>.</p><p>But I'm just reciting off useless information. This has become more of a log of my daily life than anything else. And, in a way, I'd like to keep it at that. Because however uninteresting my life is, I need an outlet. Something to vent my angers, my frustrations, my sadnesses, however slight any of them may be. I want to express my feelings and my First Amendment rights in a simple way, on the most simple, creative, open forum ever: the Internet. And so I'll continue "blogging" about my life and continue to reassure myself that this is working with little posts like this.</p><p>Because it <em>is</em> working. I think.</p><p>The truth is, I had my Sophomore Speakout last Thursday, my <em>Frankenstein</em> essay due last Monday, and my Final coming up on Friday. And there's a big synthesis essay, of which I'm not sure I can come up with anything original. What could I write about? My own fear of writing? And incorporate it into the main texts of the year?</p><p>Anyways, time's up. I'm beginning to doubt the five minute time limit I'm setting. Perhaps back to the fifteen minute one?</p>